Let's make sure the other UI's in addition to the now quite well tested and intuitive Navigation work as intuitively as the Navigation does.

The Sensors map should not just be a copy of the navigation map. It should be the central UI that shows our current path and a scrub line to our destination or towards it. Much like ather a course if plotted to destination and our ship follows it in the navigation map (like to the orbit of Mercury course). 

On the Sensors map clicking a ship, planet, or any target brings up sensor options related to that target or its vicinity. SCAN AROUND HERE, SCAN THIS SHIP, SCAN THIS PLANET, SCAN THIS ASTEROID, etc. The sensor options should be contextual to the target and its vicinity.

Then the known trade routes should be displayed as areas on the same map. Those areas should be selectable like a spehere that expands in the intersection of that trade route. So the corridor from say Earth to Mars could scanned from the map. This should revel more information from that area... the active scanning of this area should shown in th eSensors UI as activilely being scanned. We point an onboard Hubble class telescope at an are, we will find something new, even debris, something not just nothing. 

Once a target is found we can select it into limited number of slots our onboard hubble goes to check on every once a while to see they are still there. This UPDATE should be indicated on the map also in the UI, now scanning the are of this ship becuase it is on ou limited list of targets we actively point telescope at. The Sensors target tracket list should be on the sensors map in boxes with images. Each has it's own. We have as many images as we can (ship ability) simultaneously keep track of in reasonable time. If we only scan one ship then it can hardly escape while we are not looking even if it's transponder was off. But dark ships (transponder off) may make a large delta V when we are busy scanning / telescoping other targets and we may lose track of their position. The sensors map should visually display scan area that we scan automatically as a lock is lost. The UI should give option to priorize the rediscovery of the ship at the expense of the tracking of other ships or areas. It is limited resource, that onboad hubble of ours. It cannot look more than one way and one focus at a time. We need to priorize in the scanning desk.

All pop-ups on clicking a target should be related to scanning and targeting, not navigation. Navigation is done on the Navigation desk. 
